Today we are going to do the worship of Shri Krishna.
Shri Krishna came at a time on this earth
when in India the people were very much ritualistic.
They had become slaves of the so-called Brahmins
who had no idea about God at all
because they started a theme
that a Brahmin can have a Brahmin son.
So, the birth determined the caste of a person.
Before that,
it was not that a Brahmin would have a Brahmin as his son.
It’s also true that if you are a Realized soul,
in the real sense, if you are a really Realized soul,
then you must have a child which is a Realized soul.
And that is how also
if it was said that if the father is a Brahmin, is a Realized soul,
his son also becomes a Brahmin.
Because you are a Sahaja Yogi now you can understand
that a Sahaja Yogi’s son normally becomes a Sahaja Yogi.
So it was agreed that
children of a Brahmin will be called as a Brahmin.
Gradually, it amounted to this
that any child born out
of a Brahmin was called as Brahmin.
Now, we have seen that many Sahaja Yogis also don’t have
Realized souls as their children.
Maybe their own karmas,
maybe the child, anything it is,
but even I have seen some Sahaja Yogis having horribly
devilish children.
So, it shows that it is not through your birth
you can claim that you are a Brahmin
or the one who has known the Brahma.
Brahma is the All-pervading power.
So you have to be a Brahmin by your karma,
by what you do.
That is how we have got Valmiki who was just a fisherman.
He wrote Ramayana, he was a great Brahmin.
Then you have got Vyasa who wrote Gita.
He was an illegitimate son of a fisherwoman and he wrote Gita.
So this idea was flouted by Shri Krishna's incarnation.
He wanted to flout this idea that Brahmins are the ones
who can only worship God.
So to put another extreme
to what Rama has created,
to bring people into the centre,
because through Rama they went to another rigid form
and rigidity of ritualism
and too much of fundamentalism.
So to put an end to that
he wanted to bring the society to another extreme.
Of course Shri Rama himself incarnated as Shri Krishna.
So he started a new theme of,
which was absolutely eventual, it was just absolutely evolutionary
that such a new theme should come up.
And this new theme was that the whole thing is nothing but a Leela.
It's just a play, it's a Leela.
So not to be taken that seriously, not to be so rigid,
not to be fundamental, not to be so particular about something.
So, the whole thing is a Leela.
And on this theme he worked out everything
to establish that it is a play.
And that is what you see in America,
very common that for people it has become a joke,
life has become a joke.
And they think that life is not to be taken seriously,
there is more fun in doing all kinds of things
than in getting into any kind of inhibitions, as they call it,
or maybe some sort of forms or patterns.
But it is a myth with Americans now
because for that you have to have Shri Krishna,
you have to have realisation.
Like if you are standing in the water,
the waves of the water are there absolutely real for you and you,
if you think it's a illusion you'll be completely finished.
The illusion will prove that it's not an illusion
by asserting itself.
But if you're in the boat
then the water that is around is an illusion.
So, it's the state at which you are.
If you are in the state of self-realised mind,
then everything is an illusion, but otherwise it is not.
It is a reality. So, what they forgot this point,
that you are not in that state to call it an illusion.
So to call everything an illusion is just to delude yourself,
thinking that it's an illusion
and doesn't matter, what's wrong, so what.
It's quite symbolic that in Shri Krishna's place
this thing should be so
commonly accepted that everything is an illusion.
So who is wrong, who is bad, nothing is wrong.
There is nothing like evil, nothing like good.
And some people go to that limit to say
that there's nothing like a bhoot, nothing like a rakshasa,
nothing like a evil force.
Now for Shri Krishna how did he look at things was this way
that for him even to kill a rakshasa was a play.
To destroy a rakshasa was also a play.
In that play he was to be destroyed.
So, he discriminated in a way that what play is to be destroyed,
what not to be destroyed.
The play of the evil he destroyed by his own play.
So, to say there was nothing evil is also wrong.
Like even if you think everything is a play,
what happens that your attitude towards it is like a spectator.
You see the whole thing as a spectator,
like in a drama you sit down
and you watch everything as a spectator,
but you know what is depicting tragedy and what is depicting comedy.
You are not inert to that then you are good for nothing.
That doesn't mean that you become inert to that.
You have a sense of discretion to know
what is a comedy and what is a tragedy.
But if you are an actor, then to you it is not,
it is not a comedy or a tragedy, it is a work for you.
If you're acting then you're acting and you're an actor,
you're involved in it. So, it is not,
for you do not know the discretion
between the tragedy and the comedy.
For you, you're just an actor as long as you're paid well,
if you do your job well then, it's a comedy,
otherwise it's a tragedy.
So, there are two types of awareness, now of one of a spectator,
another of the one who is in it.
So, one has to understand in that light,
that when Krishna said the whole thing is a play,
he was meaning for him, not for others.
For him it is a play.
And that's why when they talk to you about the play and the illusion
you must tell them then why did he kill Kamsa.
Why did he kill Jarasandha?
Why did he kill all the people who were following Kamsa?
So, to him it was a play, everything was a play
and he did it in his own attitude of a play.
So, the first thing if you are
awakened by Shri Krishna's powers,
then the first thing that should happen to you is wisdom.
Now the wisdom is something you cannot describe.
You cannot say what is wisdom.
It's very difficult to describe it or to delimit it.
Wisdom is a temperament,
is a quality of a personality
which comes to you by balancing yourself, by trial and error method.
All traditional countries innately have much more wisdom than people
who are not traditional.
But Krishna broke all the traditions.
That's why you people are here without much tradition.
He broke all the traditions, but he was Shri Krishna,
so he did not need any tradition at all.
But for you, you have to understand from the people
who have tradition what is wisdom.
So, we do trial and error. We make mistakes, from that we learn.
But when the ego is so strong in a country like America,
when we do wrong, we do not want to accept it was wrong,¨
it was against our ascent, it was against our higher goals.
We get satisfied with the lower goals,
like I've seen people who do some funny things in Sahaja Yoga.
They don't realise that this is absolutely against them,
whatever they are doing is against them, they should not do this,
it was wrong to do it. On the contrary,
they catch on the left Vishuddhi
that is another catch they have on the Vishuddhi chakra.
So, because you're indiscreet, you do wrong things.
To develop discretion, outcome of all this is discretion.
You make mistakes. When you make mistakes,
instead of
developing the discretionabout it that this was a mistake,
next time we should not do it, facing up to it,
what we do is to feel guilty about it, so you escape it,
spoiling the other chakra also.
That is how people get a problem on the left Vishuddhi,
and left Vishuddhi is that you feel guilty.
It's very good to feel guilty than to do anything about it.
That's the best way to escape it.
Actually we have seen that mostly left Vishuddhi comes from ego.
When ego is too much, you can't bear your ego,
so you put it in the guilty side of it,
and you say, "I'm very guilty, I should not have done it."
Now the another side
which is also very dangerous is the right Vishuddhi.
Right Vishuddhi is the one by which
we try to justify all our indiscreet behaviour.
So, "What's wrong?"
"What is wrong in this?" "So what!"
All these things are right Vishuddhi problems.
So, it's very common you tell somebody that it is wrong to do,
for example they paint their hair.
You tell them, "Don't do this, it will spoil your eyes,"
they will say, "So what, we have a right to spoil ourselves,
we have a right to destroy ourselves," as if they are Shri Krishna,
that they can destroy themselves, can they?
They cannot even create a little ant,
leave alone ant, they can't even create a stone.
And how do they have right to destroy themselves?
So, this is the right side thing
where we think that we have the right to destroy.
As I told you about eyes yesterday, it's very important
that eyes are the ones
which gives you the play of Shri Krishna,
the power of Shri Krishna.
Even a glance, a little glance of a person
who has Krishna consciousness, as they call it,
if he has Krishna consciousness,
then should be able to awaken the Kundalini,
should be able to redeem, should be able to comfort,
should be able to cure anyone.
Even a glance, a side glance can do it,
if it has Krishna consciousness,
but not self-certified ones who say, "We are Krishna consciousness,"
all the time taking the name of Shri Krishna or any mantra.
So, on the left hand side the escape is feeling guilty.
When you feel guilty,
they try to find out some method of expression.
So they say they go to some guru
and then the guru gives them some sort of a mantra,
and they accept that mantra, they go on saying.
As a result of that they catch more on the left Vishuddhi.
Because if you go on saying mantra without the connection,
you get completely caught-up.
So the left Vishuddhi is again gone
and your mantras are absolutely useless, they're destroying them.
Actually many people I've seen who get to heart attacks,
who get anginas and also who get cancer
are the people who have been doing mantras like this,
without the connection with the Divine.
If you're not connected, say for example this is not connected
and I start using it too much, it will get spoilt.
In the same way the centre on the left hand side gets spoilt
when you start saying any mantra without being connected,
without feeling the power of that mantra.
So, in Sahaja Yoga we've got mantras
to neutralise these mantras on the left hand side.
Right hand side comes when we talk big.
It's a common thing with your politicians, they talk very big.
They think they're very responsible people
and do all irresponsible things.
So, when you want to spoil that chakra,
one has to do some irresponsible talk.
So like that we can say, "I will do this for you, I will do that.
I like it, I can find this, I can manage this," finished.
When you start saying in the ego form that,
"I have to do this, I will do this," then our ego shows up.
But on the contrary, if you say, "I have to do for you, Father;
I have to do for you, Mother, it's your work I'm doing,"
then the whole thing disappears
and you get that beautiful thing called surrender which is Islam.
Islam is nothing but surrender.
So you surrender yourself by saying, "This is your work, Father;
I'm working for you, I'm your instrument, I'm your flute."
So, you play the melody of God.
But for that also the central point of discretion has to be used.
Every time you go back to discretion.
Like some people do all kinds of wrong things
and they say, "Mother, we did it for you." How can it be?
Like somebody wants to drink.
He says, "I got drunk because Mother I wanted to help you."
Or Hitler can say that, "I killed so many people
because I wanted to remove all the Jews who killed Christ."
So, this right Vishuddhi gives you a kind of a mind
which tries to justify everything and tries to explain everything.
Every action can be explained. "Why did you murder?" "Because this."
"Why did you do that?" "Because of this."
Once you start justifying your wrong deeds,
right Vishuddhi goes up to your brain.
And then whatever you do has a justification.
Like, if I say that the Americans came to this country,
they actually robbed the other people of their land
and now very nicely settled down.
Now, when I say that,
immediately most of them will go to the left Vishuddhi.
"Oh, we are very guilty, we did this, we did that."
But a real Sahaja Yogi won't do that.
A real Sahaja Yogi, what he will do, he'll say, "Alright,
this is done by my fore-fathers, I did not do it.
But I can try to rectify it, I'll try to be beyond racialism;
I'll look after these people who have been robbed,
I'll try to give them whatever is possible."
This is the way you face and not just to say,
"Oh, I'm so guilty that my fore-fathers did this and all that."
But what are you doing about it?
Like I went to Switzerland and I said, "Don't feel guilty."
So one lady said that "I'm feeling guilty for Vietnam."
I said, "What did you do there?
Why are you feeling guilty for Vietnam, of all the things,
at least you did not go to fight there.
Why did you feel guilty about it?"
So she says, "I'm feeling just guilty
because I think we have done a wrong thing."
I said, "But how do call yourself 'we'?"
So this is also another point which comes out of indiscretion
that we suddenly become a personality
which is a part and parcel of the whole.
So we think that "Oh, we Americans are of the world."
Alright, how?
The day you become the world most of the problems will be solved.
They're the greatest headaches, like Russians are.
Both are headaches to the whole world.
If they become the whole world, there's no problem,
there's no problem, because then they become the love.
But just assuming a situation where we think, we are, we.
Who are the 'we'?  Husband and wife can't live together.
Children and father cannot live together.
Mother cannot live with the children.
What are 'we'? Where are 'we'?
Such fragmentations. They'll fight over small things
like a pen-knife or something, which pen-knife to be bought.
For that they will fight. How are they 'we'?
There's no unison, there is no concord.
Just the opposite of all that is the Vishuddhi chakra.
So from the very beginning, if you see that a person
who is a realised soul should see everything as a play.
Even the destruction of evil is important,
even the killing of the evil is important.
If you do not kill the evil, the evil will rule.
Do you think Hitler should have been saved
and should have been put in charge of God?
He's saved by killing him.
Because he was destroyed,
because everything was destroyed, he's saved.
This is to be understood in his life, Krishna's life,
that this is first thing happens, so that for you people,
evil is to be finished.
So, what you have to pray
that, "O Lord, finish all the evil of the world,
all the destruction of the world,
all the minds which build up our destruction,
please try to neutralise it."
This is what a Sahaja Yogi should ask for.
Instead of that,
they try to sometimes identify themselves with these ideas.
That's not correct . You have to stand up
and you have to say, "That it's wrong",
"We are not to destroy anyone, we are not to kill anybody,
we have no right."
So when Krishna told Arjuna that, "You kill everyone
who are related to you, who are your friends
and who look like your gurus, but they're already dead."
It was Shri Krishna who said,
it was the incarnation of Shri Krishna said it.
That doesn't that you start killing everybody,
becoming Arjuna, you're not Arjuna.
That is how Anand Marg, this thing organisation came up,
which started killing everyone,
thinking that they have a right to kill. How?
You have no sense of right and wrong.
How can you kill anyone or how can you save any.
First of all try to save instead of killing.
Supposing you are faced with a boat which is in danger,
people are getting drowned
and you find that you have to save the people.
Will you kill the people there or you try to salvage them?
There is no occasion for killing now.
You don't have to worry about killing, let God do that job.
What you have to do is to save people,
you have to save as many as possible all the time.
And those who are wrong type of people, you just forget about them.
You just move them out. Take them away.
Have nothing to do with them.
Do what you like, but do not kill them.
So that is one thing one has to understand as Sahaja Yogis,
that you are not here to kill anyone, to destroy anyone,
to trouble anyone or to do something that is not proper.
Even there is no need to say harsh words.
God is going to look after. He's so anxious today,
you are on the stage and He's so anxious to help you in every way
because you're doing His work. But doing His work
you don't take up
His sword into your hands and start killing everyone.
That's a very common thing we do it, in Sahaja Yoga,
I've seen people become very aggressive,
they talk very aggressively.
Specially the new-comers who come in, in a programme.
Instead of being kind, nice, compassionate, good to them,
immediately they'll say, "You're a bhoot!"
Very common.
You won't find me doing that anytime, do I?
Then you start aggressing each other also,
which is against the principle of Vishuddhi.
You're not to aggress.
You see, because whole thing becomes discretion.
What is discretion is diplomacy.
The divine diplomacy is expressed through your discretion.
If you have a sense of discretion, now you know -
this man is dangerous,
he is troubling you,
now if you have a proper sense,
you will remove that person in such a way from amidst yourself
that there won't be any more discussion or destruction.
But on the contrary, what you do is to challenge that person,
and a big fight starts. And Sahaja Yogis can fight,
I tell you sometimes I don't know what to say about their fights.
So must have discretion, must understand.
A situation develops, for example, a situation develops
where you find somebody is telling you,
"You see, this person has said this about you."
Then the same person goes and tells another person,
"That person has said this about you."
Then you start quarelling
instead of finding out the basic reason, instead of finding out,
"Why, why this is happening,
why such a situation has come between ourselves.
We were friends, what has happened?"
Instead of that, one starts fighting, getting angry.
That's not the sign of any realised soul expression.
Realised souls expressions have to be extremely discreet,
delicate, beautiful.
Nobody should notice
that you have been in any way effective,
and that's how you'll work it out.
So, the incarnation of Shri Krishna as we say
is the incarnation of the divine diplomacy.
So, he plays.
Give you an example how he plays.
There was a rakshasa, a devil,
who had a blessing from Shiva
that nobody can kill him.
And only a saint who has never opened his eyes all his life,
if he puts his eyes on him, he will be killed.
So, there was a saint who had a blessing
that you go into your yoga, yoga nidra,
sleep in your yoga sleep,
and once you open your eyes
on whomsoever it will fall, such a person will die.
Alright, so Shri Krishna was very clever.
He was fighting this devil
and this devil was about to kill Shri Krishna.
And Shri Krishna knew all about this, his background.
So he started running away from the field,
so he's got a name called Ranchodas,
the one who runs away from the battle field,
is regarded as something really derogatory,
because it's not something great to run away from the battle field.
So, he didn't mind,
he ran away and then this devil started following him
And he went into the cave
where this great saint was sleeping in his yoga nidra.
And he removed his shawl
and put it slowly, delicately, on that saint
and hid himself.
So, this rakshasa came behind him.
He saw him lying down there. He thought this was Shri Krishna.
He said, "Ah so now you're tired, you're lying down here.
Come along now, open your eyes!"
And as soon as he pulled the shawl with little strength,
this fellow got up and his eyes looked at him
and he just was burnt.
And he did not mind getting the bad name of Ranchodas.
That is the sign of diplomacy.
So the whole discretion of his is plain throughout his life,
the whole discretion, what he should do,
what is right, what is wrong,
is he doesn't have this problem.
Then he had to have his powers, all of them brought on this earth.
So, he played a trick .
He got all those powers in the form of women, young women.
And he made one king - you see-
drag these women into his own court for him to use them.
But he could never touch them.
So, Shri Krishna went and defeated this man.
He has to have justification also;
he has to have a religious justification for doing something.
So he killed this king, brought all these women
and they all became his wives, so-called.
All kinds of tricks he used to play.
I'll tell you the Radha's trick that he played.
Today I'm wearing a dress like Radha because she's Viratangana,
she's the one who protects our Sushumna Nadi.
She's the Mahalakshmi and she wears the sari like this to protect.
She wears this way, while she leaves her left hand open
because this is the Shakti of Mahakali and the right hand she closes
because the right hand is the Shakti of Mahasaraswati,
meaning the power of creation,
because creation has been done already.
She's created the earth and she's created human beings,
everything is done . Now that is stopped.
And in India, Brahmadeva is not worshipped
except there's one temple where they worship Brahmadeva,
otherwise Brahmadeva has no temple or anything.
So she closes this side, she preserves it within herself
and she opens her left side.
And in front of her
is the complete protection made for all her disciples.
This is the whole big 'archal' she makes,
normally the 'archal' is other side of it,
where the child is kept inside, hidden in other sari.
But in this one, the one that they have here
is the child is kept underneath this,
so the whole ascent takes place of Mahalakshmi.
And that's why this is the Radha's powers is shown.
So I'll tell you the last story about her
which will conclude this talk about
Radha and Shri Krishna.
That one day,
one of the wives of Shri Krishna was befooled by Narada,
and Narada said, "See,
Krishna doesn't love you, he only loves Radha.
He's just telling you stories that he loves you,
that you are his wives but he is not. He is only attached to Radha."
So, the rumour, you see, went into the women.
All of them started feeling that, "O really, it is so."
So they went and told Shri Krishna that
"You don't love us, you just love Radha."
He said, "Who told you?" They said, "Narada."
"No, no, who told you this." They said, "Narada."
He said, "Narada is just telling you lies, you see,
he is just trying to make some quarrel between you and me,
so don't listen to him."
They said, "No, no, it's true, we can prove it."
He said, "Alright. I don't know that,
but just now I got terrible pain in the stomach,
terrible pain, I can't get over it." So they got all worried.
They said, "What's the matter? what sort of a pain it is,
what can we do to overcome this pain?"
He said, "There's very simple thing that
you'll have to give me the dust of your feet to drink.
If you can take out the dust of your feet and give me to drink,
then I'll be saved."
So, these ladies used their brains. They said that
"Already he doesn't love us
and then if we give him the dust of our feet,
we'll be committing sins and then it is going to be much worse.
So, what's the use of playing into his hands, he's very diplomatic,
it's better to forget about it."
They said, "No, no, no we don't want to do such a sinful thing,
is to give you the dust of our feet, it's non-protocolish,
we have nothing to do like that, you don't teach us all bad things."
So they stopped it. So Narada came, he said, "Now what to do,
how to get rid of your pain in the stomach."
He said, "There's only way out, you go to Radha
and tell her that I've got a pain in the stomach
and this is the medicine." So, he went to Radhaji
and he said to her that,
"You see, Shri Krishna is very sick, he's got pain in the stomach
and what you have to do is to give the dust of your feet."
She said, "Yes, why not, take it,
for that pain, of course, why not?"
So, he said, "Aren't you worried about your punyas,
aren't you worried that you're committing sin."
He said, "You don't know this Shri Krishna,
he has no sense of sin at all.
He makes me do sin morning till evening,
what am I to worry about sins.
I'm not going to worry about that, you better take this for him,
this is his worry."
So, he took the dust of Radha's feet
and took it down to Shri Krishna.
Shri Krishna: "Did she give you." He said, "Did she give you?"
He said, "Yes, she has, I'm surprised,
but she's not worried about her sins, she's not worried."
He said, "That I know." So, he said, "But how do you explain it?"
He said, "You'll understand just now."
He took the dust of Radha's feet,
you see Radha's feet were dusted
or were full of dust of Vrindavan,
and Vrindavan has got yellow kind of clay,
you see, the soil is yellowish
and the whole yellow thing was on her feet
which she removed and took it.
So when Shri Krishna drank that dust,
Narada saw in the heart of Shri Krishna,
Radha was lying down and playing with her feet
on the lotus of his heart.
The lotus had the pollen,
the pollen of the lotus was touching her feet
and was making it yellow.
That's what she said that "What is it when I'm in his heart,
my feet are in his heart, so what is the sin I can commit?"
And when the ladies heard this, they realised that
their idea about Shri Krishna is still not sufficient.
They have to be Radha to understand him.
And this is how he plays diplomacy,
simple tricks here and there by which he did it.
And to introduce the beauty of Leela, he started Ras;
Ra is energy, Sa means 'with'.
So, he made Radha dance, stand there with him,
give him the the power and everybody danced.
And they looked like as if Radha and Krishna dancing.
And this is what he started, and then to make it, culminate it,
he made a festival of Holi in which he said, "Abandon everything!
For a minute you abandon everything."
And that abandonment has now become a,
that's for only one day you have to abandon,
here it has become a year-long Holi.
So, people are busy with a year-long Holi
without Shri Krishna and Radha.
So, what will be the situation of such a place?
And that's why I think, what happens that
when you try to attract others by all these stupid things,
only the bhoots are attracted and they get into you.
And once they get into you, you get funny,
you don't know why you behave like this,
why things work out that way.
This is why we have to understand
that we have to be attractive to God.
And you'll be only attractive to God if you have got your spirit.
If the spirit is shining, then only you can get into it.
So May God Bless You.
I'll have some water to drink.
Can we not open the sight a little bit of this?
It's too much!
Also something from this side to pass a little bit here.
YOGI: This now is the english version, I read this to You.
SHRI MATAJI: Yes, this you can do it and wash my feet.
... one this ... with this ...
So once it is to say in Sanskrit, then you say it to it that
and just pour water on my feet. All right?
As soon as you will open the breeze will start.
That's all sufficient.
So now you put the thing here.
It's too much. Now this water should not be touched with hand,
should be kept for using it for all kinds of purposes
and also now somebody in Austria has experimented with this water
and he found that corn which was only so
so much developed with normal water,
because he didn't want to use a hybrid seed, you see,
so with that it developed only up to this point,
but with the vibrated water it became very normal thing
and gave very beautiful corn.
So he has written a very nice article about it
which is going to sent to all the people.
I hope he sent it to you also,
so that now we need not use hybrid,
we can use ordinary seed.
Ordinary seeds, vibrate them and we can get a good gield,
because hybrid you know cannot regenerate and creates problem.
I mean if you eat hybrid food maybe your brain might go out.
Those people who talk about insanity in America,
have to know much more about these things I think.
Ask someone to pour the water just on me.
Hmm just pour it - now is it warm water?
Slowly ... now ...
Do you see that? Start it.
Now you read it.
You have to remove it.
Yes remove this water.
This is the translation [inaudible]
This is meaning the Virat, you see,
that you are part and parcel of the whole.
So everybody has to say with the same frequency, same
- ah - understanding,
same voice, because you belong to one personality.
Again the discrition. You see in the Krishna
in the Krishna-consciousness He is the discrition.
Why it is said it is only you
and alone you, because Kundalini doesn't exist there,
this is the point, you see, it is a very subtle point there.
Kundalini doesn't exist on Mooladhara-Chakra,
She exists on Mooladhara.
So the confusion that people are creating, that by doing sex
you can achieve God is a wrong confusion.
It is He, is the innocence that resides there.
That's a very important point.
So now you should get
unmarried girls who are not very young.
Big, big girls unmarried to put the rest of it.
All right. Now you take that "Yah Devi Bhut -"
Yes, that one, you have to say that.
So now ... the Puja of the Shakti
is the Power for the Ladies
ah, who are not married girls, but not very small girls,
but girls who are not married.
As you like.
Yes come here! Remove that
and with this you have to fill up the whole thing.
Beyond this. Remove it on top of this.
Please come along, come, everyone, everyone.
Just tell them how to do it. Come along.
Please come forward.
Not beyond the line.
Be carefull not to go, not on the line, beyond the line, that side.
YOGI: We begin by taking the twenty -one names of Lord Vishnu.
SHRI MATAJI: Now you should read Devis' this time.
YOGI: Om Keshavaya namaha.
Salutations to the one who has hair like a lion.
Om Narayana namaha.
SHRI MATAJI: No, no, this is the one of the, Krishnas, isn't it?
Ah, no, no, just now you have to take the names of the Goddess.
Ah of ah, Ya Devi sarva bhute shu.
Devika [inaudible]
All right. Let others also come and do it.
SHRI MATAJI: Chiti Rupena ... Chiti Rupena
Chiti is the power of attention.
Chiti Rupena.
YOGI: Chiti Rupena Ya Krutsnam etad.
Vyapya Sthita Jagat
Nmastasyai, Namastasyai
Namastasyai Namoh Namah.
SHRI MATAJI: Done so well.
She is the power of the attention, is the Mother.
So She is as the Chiti pervades the whole Universe,
Her attention is everywhere.
That's what it means. Now
Now have you got a translation there?
But in the -, have you got the Gheeta?
Have you got the book?
Yes, yes, just read it out to them.
Done? Good.
May God bless you.
SHRI MATAJI: You have to stay here. There is one more person only?
Come along. You see, because she can't do the [inaudible]
SHRI MATAJI: Not that, the feet, the feet, not that, the feet
SHRI MATAJI: That?
YOGI: Take your names Shri Mataji? SHRI MATAJI: Aah?
YOGI: Should we take the names of the Devi?
SHRI MATAJI: I think, ah, you have to now start on the other one.
A little later, all right, you can take some names, it's all right.
[Hindi]
Just put it on.
Today is Krishna Puja,
that's why I want to have 108 names of Shri Krishna,
but let the feet be done with that.
Ha, I must show this,
they have brought some Gold in India,
they wanted to make something for My feet,
from America, so Indians have made this,
and this is to be kept here only for you people,
Whenever I come you can use it,
01:02:06:20 -->01:02:10:03 s
o this is to go on the Vishuddi Chakra,
on the Vishuddi-Finger, yeah, best,
now, hmm,
not you can do it, the girls have to do it,
you leave it here, all right,
now these three ladies can do it, come along.
Please come forward. Now let her also come.
Just here! Now, ah?
YOGI: Shri Krishna?
SHRI MATAJI: You have to take the names of the Goddess, ah,
yes, about twenty-one will do.
YOGI: These are 108 of the thousand Names of the Mahadevi
given in the Shri Lalitasahasranama.
The great Goddess is at the same time
simple and innocent as a little child
and unfathomable, all pervading, totally illusive,
transcending all categories of perception,
all known and unknown Universes.
The names simply expose some aspects of Her field,
SHRI MATAJI: A little slowly so that they consume it also,
rather fast. Again, again read it!
YOGI: These are the 108 out of the thousand names of the Mahadevi,
given in the Shri Lalita Sahasranama,
The great Goddess is at the same time
simple and innocent as a little child
and unfathomable, all-pervading, totally illusive,
transcending all categories of perception,
all known and unknown Universes,
the names simply expose some aspects of Her field.
She is to be worshipped.
These Mantras should remind us that ultimately
it is only through the devotion and worship of the heart
that the true nature of Her Holiness
Shri Mataji Nirmala Devi can be exposed.
May She, the ocean of mercy bless us all.
YOGI: Om. SHRI MATAJI: That doesn't mean I am a diplomat, all right?
Only I have to open your heart, that's all.
I am not a diplomat.
Not to My devotees.
YOGI: Can we take the names of Shri Vishnu, Mother?
SHRI MATAJI: Not now, just a minute, just a minute.
Now that's the Sari of Radaji [??], you can start Vishnus names.
YOGI: What do You want, Shri Mataji?
SHRI MATAJI: Vishnus names. YOGI: Twenty-one?
SHRI MATAJI: Yes.
You might take 108? But you are going to do the - ?
YOGI: THe Havan. SHRI MATAJI: Alll right,
twenty-one names and now bring the - ...
These are only twenty -one, won't work out I think.
Better do hundred and eight Names.
Vanamala, Vanamadi here.
Vanamadi is the One who is the garden.
But it is all right, He has also Vaijayanti-mala, the whole thing.
YOGI: Aum Sakshat Shri Kshetra-dnya namoh namaha.
Salutations to the one who is the knower of the field.
SHRI MATAJI: Knower of the field, field is the whole -,
kshetra is the whole being and the knower is the spirit,
Kshetra-dnya, the One who knows the field.
SHRI MATAJI: This is Shri Krishnas [inaudible].
And Shivajis is like this, it makes the cross.
You have to hold the mirror
and you tie it up. Still tie it like that.
Lower! I think somebody else has to hold it.
Lower! Put it lower.
Just a minute, just a minute, all right.
Hold it tight!
All right.
To have Vishuddi on the [inaudible],
you have the cold also, [inaudible]
Can I have that ... oil?
So ... it's all right, it doesn't matter, show Me.
YOGI: Do you think it is upstairs. Shri Mataji?
SHRI MATAJI: No, no - it's all right.
How? It's all right?
Comb this hair, comb Shri Krishnas hair.
Do it.
That's good. The other side.
It is fine.
It's all right.
He has combed Shri Krishnas hair.
Now this Sari should be put right, not?
All of them have to be brought on.
This should be on the top
not on the head ... all right ...
... now this one more on this side ...
... this one ... on this ... all right ...
...  that's better ...
I just vibrate it.
Now, you have to take a full photograph, that's the main thing.
[inaudible]
Also these things, you see, you can put all these things in front.
No, no, you see all those plastics you can put it here.
Not, put it there infront,
because that can look nice in the photograph.
Just put it there.
Also the worshipp-things, all brass things you can put there.
Remove that cloth and just put the brass things on it.
All right, it's better. It won't come that big,
That we'll do later, all right?
First of all, let them take a photograph I think ...
Can you put it infront on that side?
This one, now, yeah, now put it here for a while,
Now take one photograph like that, for the Indians, you see?
At the most you can garland.
You just don't, they would like to see Me in complete ...
Now somebody has to take the whole of it.
Now who can do it, who have got a periscope?
Are you getting the full?
YOGI: Yeah, the whole thing.
SHRI MATAJI: You just raise the full.
Why don't you sit all the time,
are you going to be busy with your child?
Come along, sit down.
All the time she is moving this way, that way.
That's not good for vibrations. Sit down!
Sit down with your baby.
YOGI: You get some more water, Shri Mataji?
You like some diet-coke? SHRI MATAJI: Hmm?
YOGI: You like some diet-coke? You like some diet coke?
SHRI MATAJI: You got [inaudible] YOGI: Would you like some diet-coke?
SHRI MATAJI: Not that one.
That's for Mataji Nirmala Devi, not for Shri Krishna.
Before you come to America you must learn to take coke, isn't it?
[inaudible] is too My brother,
[inaudible] My brother, become like that, isn't it?
When Krishna was playing with the boys
who were looking after the herds of cows
and He had to take the butter
and now when you come to America you have to take coke.
So better to have diet-coke.
And if you go to Italy you have to eat Pizzas.
That's all the play.
Now, let's have it, is a play.
Why the baby is so [inaudible] restless?
She is crying out.
Get some vibrated oil rubbed on her head.
Good.
It's good. May God bless you.
If the children are very restless you must get some vibrated oil
rub on the head, rub on the body every night.
A child should not be restless. It should be able to sit quiet,
otherwise it is not a good sign, especially in the Puja
a child has to be quiet, otherwise there is something wrong.
Look after your children, watch them.
May God bless you.
What a wonderfull Puja. Thank you very much!
Thank you very much.
If you all keep all right, I keep all right.
Because you all are in My body.
It's all right. Now what is the situation?
YOGI: No, no, Shri Mataji we haven't planned any further.
SHRI MATAJI: That's why I - if you have noticed
today the ritual was up side down,
because I wanted to bring forth that,
that nothing is ...  YOGI: fixed.
SHRI MATAJI: fixed for you, that is Shri Krishnas style.
It was quiet nice
YOGI: It is pretty in that frame. SHRI MATAJI: Hmm, good, good.
YOGI: We hold it up. SHRI MATAJI: Ah, [inaudible].
SHRI MATAJI: That's again the stylized one?
What is the style called as?
YOGI: I don't know on this. ANOTHER YOGI: Natural.
Spontaneous.
Some of the native art, Shri Mataji.
SHRI MATAJI: Oh I see.
YOGI: See the shining eyes of the seekers.
Of their Mother, it's the Mother giving them the shining eyes.
SHRI MATAJI: Very nice these small little eyes.
That's an american girl, on Me.
SHRI MATAJI: This is in the Nepal-version of the Goddess.
YOGI: Excuse me! SHRI MATAJI: Nepal-version of the Goddess.
This is the -
This One is Mahakali.
Is left side, Mahakali.
May God bless you.
SHRI MATAJI: So? YOGINI: This is for You.
SHRI MATAJI: What's that?
YOGINI: It is a little bit inspired and this is my new name.
And this is the Lady who gave me a Sari to wear today.
You know her.
She lives in my [inaudible]. SHRI MATAJI: She is gone away now?
YOGINI: No. She still lives there.
SHRI MATAJI: Ah, very nice. YOGINI: Okay.
SHRI MATAJI: Very sweet, but this is a nice [inaudible].
YOGINI: You like that? SHRI MATAJI: Yes, beautiful,
[inaudible]and advices. YOGINI: Yes, okay.
SHRI MATAJI: May God bless you. That's a nice one: Helen Joy Bliss.
YOGINI: Yes, that's what I call myself now.
SHRI MATAJI: Beautifull, that you are.
YOGINI: Thank You. SHRI MATAJI: Is a fact, is actually your nature.
YOGINI: Yes. SHRI MATAJI: Can we keep it for the next day?
YOGINI: And I want You to enjoy that little gift.
SHRI MATAJI: All right, I know, I do it definitelly.
I enjoy it, there is no doubt.
Very kind of you.
YOGINI: Her telephone-number is there in case You want it.
SHRI MATAJI: Yes, I would like to keep that with Me. YOGINI: Okay.
SHRI MATAJI: Thank you very much.
Oh very sweet of you! YOGINI: Okay.
YOGINI: Thank You.
SHRI MATAJI: Thank you.
YOGINI: I am extremely shivering,
SHRI MATAJI: Ah? YOGINI: I wanted to give you, to you in Italy,
but I didn't, I couldn't think, Shri Mataji.
SHRI MATAJI: Aha, that's beautiful.
You know in this one also from My face,
from when I am smiling the vibrations are coming out.
Can you see that? YOGI: Ah, yes Shri Mataji.
YOGI: Another copy? ANOTHERYOGI: The whole book.
SHRI MATAJI: This is a beautiful photograph.
I don't know how she got it, on the top of My head.
YOGINI: Sahasrara-Day-Puja, Shri Mataji.
02:37:23:19 -->02:37:25:19 In Vienna.
SHRI MATAJI: That's another one.
She has done some very good photographs.
And this one, can you beat it?
YOGINI: That's Gregoires, Mother.
SHRI MATAJI: It's Gregoires, but still look at the red.
This says automatically it came like that,
like little [inaudible]
which was not that red, but again it has come up.
YOGI: It became red like Kumkum?
SHRI MATAJI: Not Kumkum, it's red, shining red.
This is another one, you see? YOGI: Ah?
SHRI MATAJI: This Baby is crying.
One better there, see this one.
It is very beautifull photographs, I might [inaudible].
This is the one where We went up -
YOGI: Matterhorn. SHRI MATAJI: Matterhorn.
OGI: The same shape as India up side down.
SHRI MATAJI: Yes, but it is actually Ganeshas faces,
You see there are Ganeshas, one Ganesha is like this,
another like that, another like that.
Four Ganeshas put together.
This one is remarkable. How did you get My hair like that?
YOGINI: You just moved it, I don't know, it came out [inaudible].
YOGI: Nilachikurya. YOGINI: It's a ...
SHRI MATAJI: Nilachikurya. YOGINI: Nagas
SHRI MATAJI: Nagas. YOGINI: Gregoire said Nagas.
SHRI MATAJI:It's very nice, it is very beautiful,
she has a talent for that.
A real talent I must say.
YOGI: We should publish a book
of colour-photographs of You, Shri Mataji.
SHRI MATAJI: Yeah. YOGIS: It would be a bestseller, Shri Mataji.
SHRI MATAJI: This looks like as if I am sitting in the Himalayas
and it was not such a wild thing there, nothing, it's in a village.
I can't explain it. This is another very good.
It's very nice, see that, very well.
You all can go through it and see for yourself.
Very beautiful.
What have you written? YOGINI: This is the translation in Italian,
from Saundaryalahari from Adi Shankara Charya.
SHRI MATAJI: Oh I see, but then who is going to tran-
which one it is you, just tell Me.
YOGINI: It's all of it. SHRI MATAJI: Now I see.
YOGINI: And we would like to publish it, publish it.
SHRI MATAJI: Oh I ... YOGINI: It's all You.
I couldn't written, I couldn't have written.
Complete.
Very beautiful.
Very well done. May God bless you.